residents of the West Bank launched a
general strike closing their shops and
other businesses after Israeli troops
raided a refugee camp in the territory
the Palestinian red crescent said at
least 14 people were killed and dozens
injured Israel says it targeted
militants during a counterterrorism
operation Israel's military raids the
new Shams refugee camp in the northern
part of the West
Bank the
aftermath many killed and
injured roads
bulldozed and homes
destroyed my son was sleeping there he
had gone to wash himself then he prayed
and went home his home is higher up
there was a sniper in front of him who
shot him I heard the sound of the
shooting my other son went up there and
found he was
bleeding he bled to death look at
blood Palestinians describe the Israeli
rate as
unprecedented there is indeed complete
destruction of homes shops the
electricity grid the sewage the water
Network and the
infrastructure this incursion is
unprecedented there are snipers and
rooftops death squats and Special Forces
deployed
it's indeed a real
war the Israeli military says it killed
militants during the raid the Army also
says it has found and destroyed
explosives and seized many weapons used
in what it calls terrorist
activities following the Israeli rate
Palestinian residents launched a general
strike shops universities Banks and the
public transportation
were all close to protest the Israeli
rate on the refugee
camp balik sladin is a journalist based
in Tel Aviv and he told me more about
the high tensions and the purpose of the
idf's raid in the West Bank well uh we
are four days into this last raid in N
Shams camp in tar and apparently the
security forces didn't conclude the
operation yet today the Palestinians
said that the Israeli soldiers retreated
and left the what they call a Siege on
the camp uh showing the damage that
we've seen also in the report uh some
residents uh in the West Bank including
ones that I talked to claimed that the
main target of the raid the commander of
the to Karim Battalion his name is abua
is still alive actually contrary to what
the shin B the Israeli intelligence has
said they're showing videos of him
photos of him but it's not clear when
those photos and videos were actually
taken if that turns out to be true we
will definitely see more raids in the
camp in the near future because Israel
vowed to deal with all the armed groups
in the West Bank um just to make it
clear since the beginning of the war
we've witnessed 60 operations like this
and they managed to dismantle actually
the battalions in Janine and nabl with
to current Battalion is the last one
standing if you ask me whether if they
actually dismantle the to Karen
Battalion the uh attacks will stop they
will not because the Lone Wolf attacks
that we see over and over again will
definitely continue because that's the
main challenge for the
Israelis now after EU and US sanctions
on Israeli settlers there are now media
reports that the US is planning to
impose sanctions on an IDF Battalion for
alleged violations of international law
can you tell us
more yes well according to the report
the US will impose on Battalion now the
reason is that the battalions is
involved in alleged human rights
violations in the West Bank this
Battalion is actually known for its
question questionable practices to save
the least against Palestinians in one
incident they left an 80 years old
American Palestinian man to die while
handcuffed that happened in the
beginning of 2022 and something uh of
course that triggered lots of backlash
from Washington because he is American
and because of the incident itself now
uh the report was met of course with
outrage in Israel but it interesting to
hear the difference in the tone between
the commment from the Coalition and the
opposition while the farri politicians
like B like smotrich harshly condemns
the possible sanction labor party leader
M for example said that the violent
nature of Neta has been known for the
years and the American move should be
considered as a wakeup call for Israel
now let's also look at rafar now the
latest Israeli air strike there killed
more than 20 people that's according to
Hamas and Israel still wants to launch a
ground offensive what's going to happen
to the civilian population then yes well
uh we heard nahu uh in a statement today
he said in the coming days the Israeli
military will intensify its military and
diplomatic pressure against Hamas saying
that this only way to bring back the
hostages since Hamas has refused
actually every ceasefire proposal now we
know that natany ordered the purchase of
40,000 t for the civilian but it's
unclear where they will go the only
possible uh humanitarian Zone will be an
masasi actually something that of course
the Israelis after all accepted that it
will take lots of time and it will
very
complicated the journalist bikine in Tel
Aviv thank you